docs/FAQ.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# FAQ

### I have a couple of nodes with low utilization, but they are not scaled down. Why?

Have you set the [cluster autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler)?

If cluster autoscaler is set up, it should be correctly configured to scale down the nodes.
To see the possible issues, check the [cluster autoscaler documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/master/cluster-autoscaler/FAQ.md#i-have-a-couple-of-nodes-with-low-utilization-but-they-are-not-scaled-down-why).

### How many CO2 is produced by pod?

This calculations are based on the following assumptions:

- Emissions for cloud server using 100% green electricity: **160 Kg CO2eq / year and server** (from [goclimate.com](https://www.goclimate.com/blog/the-carbon-footprint-of-servers/#:~:text=Cloud%20server%20using%20100%%20green%20electricity:%20160%20kg%20CO2e%20/%20year%20and%20server)
)
- Cluster node of 2 cpu. We approximate **1 node is 1 server**
- **15 pods per node**

With this assumption, the mean consumption of CO2 per pod in a year is 160 / 15 = **11 Kg CO2eq / year per pod**.

import ConsumptionCalculator from '../src/components/ConsumptionCalculator'

<ConsumptionCalculator />

Commit message:

docs: add install without cert-manager documentation

docs/FAQ.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# FAQ

### I have a couple of nodes with low utilization, but they are not scaled down. Why?

Have you set the [cluster autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler)?

If cluster autoscaler is set up, it should be correctly configured to scale down the nodes.
To see the possible issues, check the [cluster autoscaler documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/master/cluster-autoscaler/FAQ.md#i-have-a-couple-of-nodes-with-low-utilization-but-they-are-not-scaled-down-why).

### I want avoid to deploy cert-manager. What are the alternatives?

You can find alternatives to cert-manager installation in the [cert-manager alternatives](/docs/advanced/webhook-cert-management#without-cert-manager) section.

### How many CO2 is produced by pod?

This calculations are based on the following assumptions:

- Emissions for cloud server using 100% green electricity: **160 Kg CO2eq / year and server** (from [goclimate.com](https://www.goclimate.com/blog/the-carbon-footprint-of-servers/#:~:text=Cloud%20server%20using%20100%%20green%20electricity:%20160%20kg%20CO2e%20/%20year%20and%20server)
)
- Cluster node of 2 cpu. We approximate **1 node is 1 server**
- **15 pods per node**

With this assumption, the mean consumption of CO2 per pod in a year is 160 / 15 = **11 Kg CO2eq / year per pod**.

import ConsumptionCalculator from '../src/components/ConsumptionCalculator'

<ConsumptionCalculator />
